Dear Sister Yen, I am from the
South, and I am also a devout Buddhist at the
temple in my hometown.  I have also relinquished
worldly possessions and desires to practice for
liberation, but I still create a
lot of negative karma every day, sister.  I watched
your videos and saw that you're also a
Buddhist practitioner. Did you experience anything similar to what I did?  Could you please
share with me why even after practicing for a long time, one still
has to bear the consequences of karma, and why the longer one practices,
the more karma accumulates?  I eagerly
await your reply so that I may feel more secure
on my spiritual path.  Dear
audience, this is also a question asked
by many practitioners.
I think that if I practice meditation, I should experience peace and
tranquility.  Why are there
so many karmic consequences?  First,
Hien said this: "
We've only practiced Buddhism a little,
but we've committed countless sins,
right?"  Then there must still be karma left;
how could karma be completely eliminated, right?
Therefore, we must persevere in our practice until all our
karma is eradicated; it's not the case that
we can commit sins and then expect to be
free from karma after only a short period of practice
.  Therefore, we must practice
until we have eliminated all our karma before we can become saints.
Therefore, it cannot be said that practicing
Buddhism automatically brings about karmic consequences; that even if we don't
practice, we will still have to pay for our karma.  If we practice spiritual cultivation, we
can transform our karma.  But as for how we practice spiritual cultivation,
we need to examine
ourselves.  Does our practice
progress quickly or slowly?  There are
things we practice,
things we accomplish,
but when we become arrogant, that's
when we create negative karma, not
when we're actually practicing.  Therefore, sometimes
people who practice Buddhism think, "I am practicing Buddhism,
I am practicing it. Today I am making offerings,
today I am doing good deeds, today I am
helping others."  But offering is an act of merit
, helping is an act of helping, while
arrogance is a new karma that is
born and continues to cause us to suffer the consequences.
So, the essence of spiritual practice is
knowing how to stop creating negative karma.  That's right,
we have to know how to stop creating bad karma, because if we
don't stop, we'll only
create more bad karma.  For example, the good deeds
we do are few, but
arrogance and contempt for others create much
heavier karma.  There.  For example,
some people who haven't practiced spiritual discipline might
still know how to be humble and polite.
But once you start practicing, you feel like
you're already good at it.  If you disrespect your
parents, teachers, and friends, the merit you
create is only 0.5, while the negative karma you create is
99.95%
.
So, that would generate more, right
?  Before becoming a monk, one respects the teacher; after becoming a monk, one
looks down on the teacher.  That contempt is nothing
compared to these glasses; these glasses are only
a little bit better.  Respect comes from the fact that
I respect my teacher because I haven't been able to repay his kindness yet
.  This kind of contempt, however, falls
outside the realm of repaying kindness.  Therefore,
it is a completely new sin.  That's how ingratitude works
.  Therefore, among our fellow practitioners
, before we become monks, we
receive instruction from our teachers and guidance from our fellow practitioners.
But after practicing for a while, when we become
capable of doing everything, we start to
disrespect our teachers and mentors, and we look down on those who encouraged
us, our fellow practitioners,
and we still haven't stopped our negative actions.  Instead of stopping their negative
karma, they're creating even more bad
karma.  Therefore, it doesn't matter whether you've been
practicing for a long time or just started.  If, after a long period of practice, one manages to
renounce possessions but
becomes more arrogant and contemptuous of others,
then that will create much
more negative karma, not just a little.
Here's an example, Yen said.  The head of the
Buddhist congregation going to make offerings is just a
statement.  It's not just a small amount, but it
already creates negative karma.  For example, if this money belongs
to our temple, to the Buddhist followers who make
offerings, then simply saying, "I respectfully request the
teacher to make this offering to you, or to the
Three Jewels," is already considered using
someone else's name to misappropriate their money.  It
creates a lot of negative karma.  Therefore, the
statement must be a statement that is true.
If I don't have money to make a donation,
I have to explain that this is a
Buddhist follower of the temple making a donation, but
I didn't make one.  It has to be that
genuine, not
that I didn't make offerings myself.  But
during the offering ceremony, they said that
the ceremony I made offerings to did not
include me.  I
don't know about other Buddhists, but I still refer to it as
my own Buddhist community.  But when I speak and ask for permission,
I know clearly that I am not making an
offering.  Therefore, I have to say that these are
offerings from the Buddhist followers in the temple,
and I did not receive any.  That's what you call
stopping the cycle of karma, guys.  But if
you say, "Master, this is the
offering money from the temple," it means you're including
yourself in it.  That's just
continuing to create bad karma, you know.  Therefore,
creating karma involves both mental and verbal actions,
not just clinging to
or not clinging to possessions.  Even just
saying something can continue to create negative
karma, so you will continue to suffer the consequences
later; the karma hasn't stopped yet.
In our Buddhist tradition, we must exercise
strict control, maintaining a very disciplined body and mind in order to
achieve goodness;
otherwise, things will not improve.  The
same applies to the kitchen staff, for example.  We respectfully inform you, Venerable Master,
that the Buddhist followers in
our group are simply cooking the meal for the offering;
it's not an offering of the actual
dishes.  Because offerings involve money
from the donors, and it's
not just the cooking itself; there are
many other steps involved
before a finished offering is made.
Therefore, if we just have a wrong thought or
say the wrong thing, we will incur negative karma
.  For example, a standard sentence would be, "We
were assigned to work in the kitchen, and
we have completed our duties
."  That's the correct statement,
right?  We certainly can't say that
we've prepared three offerings for the
monks today.  That's not possible.  Because
preparing these three dishes also requires an offering
.  People think that person
made a public offering.  Right?
Therefore, when someone has the right
words, and has finished the task, they should
say, "I am very pleased with the meritorious deeds of the
community."  We, the general public, are somewhat
blessed.  That's the standard sentence structure.
That statement both stops karma and transforms it.
But if you can't say
those words and are arrogant in
your actions, then your karma hasn't stopped yet.
Therefore, the longer one practices spiritual cultivation, the
more karma one creates, and the more
karma one refuses to stop.  Whether or not karma manifests
depends on whether or not one transforms their karma
.  And all karmic consequences, even if you
've changed your ways, will still have lingering effects.  Therefore,
we should only accept the consequences of our actions,
not the
actions we take to reap the karmic retribution.  Because if
we haven't stopped creating negative karma, we will continue to
suffer the consequences.  But if we have
stopped practicing karma, and we are on the path of
transforming karma, then we only have residual
karma left.  And that premonition never
bothered me.  Free from
worries.  The manifestation
of suffering is pain.  Remember this
, the nature of suffering is that it does not
benefit oneself, does not benefit others, does not
benefit anyone at all, but brings suffering to
others, suffering to oneself, and chaos to all
beings.  That is the sign of suffering.  Therefore,
among us Buddhists, if we
do something that doesn't lead people
to benefit, that causes chaos and
discord among the masses, that increases
our own ego and the egos of others,
then we know
that we haven't stopped creating karma;
we are creating karma.  Regarding the idea that
the longer one practices spiritual cultivation, the more negative karma one accumulates, this is
not true, it's not
true.  But the path of practice here must
lead to freedom from suffering for one to
accept being a practitioner.  In
this matter, the practitioner
facing this situation will not be troubled.
To be free from worries means not bringing suffering
to oneself and not bringing suffering to
others.  It must benefit both oneself and
others.  That's
not what you call your karma.  For example, if
Mahadatta harmed the Buddha, would that be
considered the Buddha's karma?  It cannot
be called the karma of the Buddha.  That is called the karmic connection
of sentient beings.  The karma of
sentient beings.  And because of that karmic connection,
we have learned a valuable lesson so that
future generations, those who are fortunate enough to have good fortune, will
not follow that path, right
?  To serve as a lesson for many people.
Therefore, the more one practices spiritual cultivation, the more their
karma must be transformed.  If
karma manifests itself in a certain way,
then we must see that karma and
its causes will benefit
sentient beings.  But if
that karma causes us distress,
suffering, or even harm, then we need to
examine whether we have stopped creating karma or
are still creating it.  But if I
stop practicing this practice, the harm to myself
won't be significant.  And I
didn't get upset, suffer, or create negative karma
because of that.
[music]